Let's be real for moment.
Monitoring isn't the most exciting topic, is it?
It's something that only feels like it's needed every now and then, and for many,
the volume of data feels like a scene from
the matrix where all the lines of code are blurring together.
For others, there's not enough data being collected,
so it never feels that useful or when it does have something to say,
it's usually bad news.
Because of this, monitoring is often the most neglected or underestimated tools we have.
But monitoring may be one of the most necessary evils of all the evils.
In fact, maybe it's not so evil after all.
Monitoring though often forgotten and neglected,
will happily help us out of the pit of despair when we have
a server down or some mysterious application or database issue.
Think for a moment about the possibilities.
In the heat of battle, monitoring data might help you get to the problem faster.
Network logs might help you find out when something goes down or degrades.
Application logs can help you wake up the right people in the case of an incident.
CPU, memory and disk metrics will help you see an outage brewing even an hour before.
With machine learning and data science,
you could predict the next outage that could potentially happen in two weeks.
Monitoring might not be the conversation piece of the century,
but you and your project might be if you don't have monitoring in place.
So let's make sure that you have the knowledge that it takes to get that moving.